[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We have the massive pleasure
today of visiting with Don
Tolman.
He's got me on some
preservative-free beer
with plenty of lemons.
So we can tell you it's healthy.
(SOUTHERN ACCENT) It's good.
And we're going to get to
doing some talking right, Don?
>> Oh, wow.
Let's go for it.
>> (SOUTHERN ACCENT) The
man doesn't mind to talk.
So we've got some
questions to ask you, Don.
Now, I've heard that you just
did a 30 day fast in Fiji.
Is that correct?
>> Yeah, I did.
>> Could you talk maybe about
the experiences with that?
Any revelations that you
had or any preparation
to go into a 30 day fast?
>> Well, you know,
it's interesting,
because I've actually done
five 40 days on just water.
And the LA Film Factory
and Hollywood Films
filmed the 40 days.
And it was out at Panama
City Beach, Florida.
And at the end of 40 days on
nothing but water and sunshine,
it was filmed, and I was
watched over 24 hours a day.
And I was there
with 13 people that
had been sent from Cornell
Medical, Johns Hopkins,
and other medical places that
were "supposedly" terminal.
Anyway, they went
20 days on water,
and then I put them on fresh
juices, and I stayed on water.
Every one of those people
had absolutely no disease
conditions at the end of 20 days
on water and 20 days on juice.
At the end of 40
days on water, I
drank one liter, or one
quart, of fresh grape juice.
And it energized
me so much, I said,
I'm going to go out and run.
So I went out running.
The film crews jumped
into a pickup truck
and put their cameras in
there and wanted to film me.
And I ran a marathon.
I went 26 miles.
>> No, come on, Don.
>> Yeah, true story.
And it's all documented.
It's all there.
>> Wow.
>> Well, anyway, I decided
just a few months ago, OK,
I'm way overdue.
I need to give my body a
rest and strengthen it.
>> Yeah.
>> And so I went to Fiji and
went out to the Kadavu Islands.
Did the 30 days, And it's such
a brilliant, wonderful feeling.
I was on a little island.
No other humans
are on that island.
It's a private island.
>> Yeah.
>> I got permission from one of
the chiefs of the cultures over
there to do it.
And so I had a little tent,
a little artesian spring
to get the water, laid in the
sunshine, swimmed in the ocean.
And it was so fascinating,
because it brought back
a lot of memories that
are contained within us.
There's three levels of
intelligence and cognitive
process--
that there is a conscious,
there's the subconscious,
and there's the superconscious,
the superconsciousness.
And the subconscious
and superconsciousness
work together.
>> To access--
>> Mhm, and push information
into the conscious beta wave
realm of the brain.
And I know from my own
experience that it's true.
>> Wow.
>> And it's so fascinating to
see and to hear audio video
memory mind movies of things
right out in front of you while
you're fully awake.
Most of us have to go to sleep.
Then we dream.
But during that fasting
state of extended fasting,
you can actually
have moments of being
able to dream and see those
things while you're fully
awake.
And I had to come up
with a name for it.
And I just called it moving
optical memory projections.
Because if you don't
understand that it's
a record of a memory
projected out in front of you
to see in front of
you, you'll think
it's a three-dimensional
physical experience.
It is so brilliant, and it's
just a fascinating experience--
very, very healthy mentally,
physically, emotionally,
and even socially
in our personalities
to do that kind of thing.
>> But you wouldn't want to be--
you can't be in a
stressful environment.
You can't have a lot
of responsibilities.
It's like when you're
doing a fast like that,
it's just in the right
environment, rest, sunshine.
>> And when you go out and you
fast in an environment that is
unstressed, and you
can get into the sun,
you're breathing
outdoor, fresh air,
and you can walk when you feel
like it and lay down when you
feel like it and just
go with the feelings.
It's so fascinating when you
come through that experience
and take the first bite of a
fruit or a vegetable and nut
or a seed, whatever
attracts you.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> And you totally,
completely, insalivate it,
the awakening of the powers
of the nature and the physics
around us and how we are
completely tied into that,
it is brilliant.
And I hope that more
people can get back
into that kind of an experience.
It's a fascinating history to
go back into the ancient records
and what's actually
recorded and held
in collections of ancient
and arcane materials
that are still in
collections today.
A lot of them today, though,
are under lock and key,
and you can't get in.
But back then, it was a
process of understanding
through scholarly, meaning
observation of nature,
principles.
Some of them wanted to go
what was called the Rainbow
Bridge, the seven
colors of the rainbow,
red, orange, yellow, green,
blue, indigo, and violet.
And so they would go seven days
and eat nothing but red food
on the day they were born on.
The next day, they'd
go to orange food,
the next day, yellow food.
And people can do
this just starting out
at any time they want.
They can try to walk
the Rainbow Bridge.
Because the ancient wisdom
was at the end of the rainbow
is a pot of gold, a
vessel of purity and life
and health and shininess.
You hit a point of going
through this process
to where you realize
the reason you
can see a rainbow
in the sky, the sun
is shining through
molecules of water,
and it creates a rainbow.
Water contains all the
frequencies of the light.
>> The water fast.
>> The water fast-- so when
you go on water, there's fast,
which is eating
the foods, faster,
drinking the juices
of the foods,
and the fastest path of healing,
emotionally, physically,
mentally, socially, is to
be able to go on water.
But you don't do that unless
you're at least 22 years old.
I lived amongst about--
I don't know-- about
14, 15 different
off the grid cultures
that were disease-free,
long lived, and happy.
They had no doctors.
They had no hospitals.
They had no miracle
supplements in a capsule form.
And yet even anthropologists who
have studied these groups know,
these people, average
lifespan, 120 to 155 years.
How do they do that?
So that's what I
was interested in.
That's what got me going.
And it's time to bring this
information back to the world.
That's all they wanted
was for their descendants
to know this stuff.
And a lot of people don't
realize the ancient observers
knew there is not an animal
on the face of this Earth that
will eat.
They won't eat if they're sick.
>> Exactly, the sick dog, I've
seen it happen a million times.
>> They just stop, you know?
And the whole thing
is, they won't go back
into eating until they
intuitively, instinctively
know, my body's ready.
And going on nothing but
water and air and sunshine,
they know instinctively
that's the fastest path.
And as humans,
we've been trained.
Ah, don't listen to that.
You skip a meal, you could
become comatose and die.
>> Yeah, eating chicken soup,
you need chicken soup when
you're sick.
Quick.
>> No, it's crazy.
>> Which is like the
worst thing you could do.
Sick, stop eating.
Rest.
Drink water.
>> That's it.
And you will heal.
>> So going on what
you're saying then, Don,
it's a gauge you find
out for yourself.
You start experimenting with it,
do little bits and pieces here,
and then just slowly
get more confidence.
And you'll work out what's
the best method for you.
>> That's it.
It's your body.
>> Yeah.
>> Go with what you feel.
Don't live your life based
on other people trying
to live your life for
you and tell you how.
>> Opinions.
>> Yeah, hear things, but go
with how you feel about what
you hear.
Does it seem logical?
Does it seem reasonable?
What is my intuitive gut
feeling about what I'm hearing
and what I'm being exposed to?
>> Yeah.
>> You honor that, and
you can't go wrong.
>> So when you start doing it,
Don, maybe do some research.
So if you're doing a
three day, four day fast,
so that when you break the fast,
and you do go to eat something,
you're using the right
types of foods and stuff.
But anyone can find
that on Google.
You can just work it out.
>> Yeah, well, you can.
In fact, the very
best and easiest
is when you break a fast of
one day, three days, 10 days,
40 days, is fruit.
Fruit, if you look
up the word, it
means to add splendor and life.
Fruit is one of the
healthiest things
that you can reintroduce
into the body
after an extended fast.
The word vegetable
means to make strong
and to strengthen,
fruit, splendor and life.
So when you break a fast,
fruit is one of the best things
that you can take in.
>> Do you think we can get rid
of negative trapped emotion out
of our body through fasting?
Is that something
that you know about?
Or is that a possibility?
>> I know for a
fact that you can.
Whenever you are crushed because
of loss and grief of a loved
one or some other thing,
whenever you're stressed,
or your buttons are pushed, and
you're just angry all the time
and moving, they used
to call it venting,
to vent your emotions,
to vent discomforts
from the internal
part of the body even.
And when you keep
the body venting,
and it's not closed off, you
prevent ongoing problems.
And that was prevention.
We breathe in and out
over 20,000 times a day.
And within that
physiological process,
we're getting rid of
toxins in metabolic ways
through breathing.
The skin will evaporate
about a liter or a liter
and a half of water
every 24 to 30 hours.
It's venting all the time.
When we urinate, when we have a
bowel movement, we're venting.
We're clearing.
And the emotions can be
so toxic it slows down
the venting process.
And so when you fast, it
speeds up the venting.
It's just like when people
talk about "having the flu."
They don't even
realize the flu is
the body kicking up, venting,
because it hasn't been venting.
You're dehydrated.
You're toxic.
You're this.
You're that.
That's what influenza means,
not flueing or not venting.
And I think that people
have emotional flu.
And so it's not venting.
To be able to express a
bit, not in anger, not
in all of these things,
when you just fast, you
are venting and healing the
emotions at such a level,
it's mind-boggling.
>> Yeah.
>> And a lot of people, when
they're completely stressed
and having negative
emotions and everything,
they lose their appetite.
But a lot of them think,
oh, I'd better eat anyway.
And so then they
continue the negativity
and the emotional process.
It's like, stop it.
Drink a lot of water
and vent the emotions,
because that's what
the body would--
>> The body's just
begging for you to stop.
>> Yeah, it is.
It actually is.
>> So Don, on top of
obviously eating whole foods,
detoxing as much as we can,
is there any other modalities,
like is there any sort of
practitioners that you go
and see?
Is there anything that
you would recommend to us
to do on top of those things?
>> Anything that is noninvasive
for the human body--
people who are skilled
at chiropractic,
that's a brilliant wisdom
for thousands of years.
It's brilliant.
And the pharmaceutical
medical industry
attacked it and said,
oh, they're quacks.
They're this.
No, it's not.
People who are skilled
at that, it's brilliant.
Massage, even deep
lymphatic massage,
can help the healing
motions in the physical body
and everything else.
>> Just get stuff that
might be trapped in.
>> Yeah.
Gravitational fed colonics
from colonic therapy,
as long as its
gravity flow, perfect.
And it goes on and on.
But movement, Tai chi,
yoga, stretching--
>> Breathing, the
controlled breathing.
>> A lot of people
have forgotten.
There's not an animal on this
Earth that if it just woke up
it'll get up and go.
No, they rotate.
They stretch.
And you can see horses do it.
Cows do it.
>> Cats.
>> Cats do it.
Dogs do it.
And we get up in the
morning in our bed
and just jump out of bed and go.
That's wrong.
Stop it.
>> Yeah.
>> Go back.
Lay in bed.
When you wake up, take the
time to scrunch your neck,
rotate your head each
way, do your shoulders,
stretch your arms,
rotate your wrist,
lift your legs up, bend
the knees up to the chest,
rotate your ankles.
>> Get some chi
flowing around, huh?
>> Yeah.
And you know what?
You only do that for
one or two minutes.
Then get out of bed.
And you watch what happens to
your emotions within just two
or four days of
doing that each day.
>> Yeah.
>> And a lot of people don't
even have a clue anymore.
>> Wouldn't even
consider doing that.
>> Those are the
things that I support,
things that are not invasive,
that actually lift the human
body--
love, intimacy, sexuality,
hugs, healing, healing.
>> Affection and affection.
>> Too many couples
get up in the morning,
and they're so busy.
Oh, bye, see you later.
Gah, and it creates distance and
a failure of the relationship
through emotions that
are stressed and empty.
>> When there's no need for it.
>> Yeah.
Hug.
Put your hands on
somebody's face
that you love and
look in their eyes.
The eyes are the
window to the soul.
Heal each other.
Even children, come on.
>> Don, there's a lot of people
that I meet who are suffering
from fatigue.
Just they're down,
adrenal fatigue.
Is this something that
we can easily overcome?
Is there some-- say,
in a nutshell, what's
a quick way to get around that?
>> Again it's fast,
faster, and fastest.
>> Yeah.
>> But one of the things people
need to understand is how you
shut down the adrenals to
where you don't have adrenaline
pumping and giving you energy.
Adrenaline, a lot of
people don't understand.
It comes from the
pancreas, which
produces two mega hormones
that they know of.
One is insulin, which makes
you tired and lethargic
and lay down layers of fat to
protect the nervous system.
The other mega
hormone is glucagon.
Glucagon is produced
by the pancreas,
and it produces in the
adrenals, "adrenaline."
So you feel energized.
OK, so all of that comes
from what today in studies
of "chemistry" calls
carbohydrates or sugars.
There are fast
sugars, and there are
slow sugars that they know of.
Fast sugars come
from refined sugars,
synthetically, artificially,
commercially manufactured
sugars.
Then artificial chemical
sweeteners, like aspartame
and other things.
>> Deadly poison.
>> Those are fast sugars.
They are toxic and even deadly.
They are neurodegeneratives
and shut down
the production of glucagon,
and therefore, create fatigue.
They give you a sugar
high, and then you crash.
>> And this is a big
percentage of fast food.
>> It's one of the
biggest things out there.
>> Yeah.
>> You get a high,
and you crash.
So you have more,
high, crash, have more.
Large molecules of sugars
come from fruits and things
like sweet potatoes.
A sweet potato looks
just like the pancreas.
We've had people that were
diagnosed as type 1 diabetics
and type 2 diabetes.
And you know what?
They throw the insulin
in the garbage.
Or they take baby
steps and cut down
dosage, whatever they're
mentally and emotionally
capable of.
>> Ready for, yeah.
>> And they go on nothing but
a fruit and sweet potato diet.
Within 30 days, we
have over 1,000 people
who were type 1 diabetics,
no longer diabetic.
>> Damn.
>> And fatigue, adrenal fatigue,
fruit is the number one healer
of that problem.
Fast sugars cross the blood
brain barrier so quickly
it gives you a spike.
But the brain knows
you're in danger,
so it causes the pancreas
to produce insulin
to make you tired and
fatigued, slow you down.
>> And you know what, fruit,
and you hear these girls, oh,
I don't eat fruit.
It puts on weight.
There's so-- oh, man.
>> It's such a scam.
Oh, watermelon, it
has 45 teaspoons
of sugar just in one piece.
People are so--
>> Conditioned, huh?
>> Conditioned and blind, they
believe all of the "bought
and paid for" pharmaceutical
crap in order to sell aspartame
and refined sugars and insulin.
If you'll just go on a fruit
diet, it will blow you away.
>> Wow.
>> Healed.
>> And a lot of people,
when they start getting
into the fruit and vegetables,
they're a bit scared about
pesticides, herbicides.
Say we can't find organics,
or we can't afford organics.
Can we quickly make normal
vegetables OK to eat?
>> Absolutely.
And here's the thing
that kind of crushes me
in the organic movement.
A lot of the organic foods
they buy in the United States
and some other countries
has been in cold storage
for upwards of
three to four years.
They're not even
fresh in this season.
>> What do you mean, frozen?
>> Yeah.
And then they set them
out on the shelves,
squirt them with water
so they look "fresh."
The nutritional components
of the cells of those plants
are diminished.
But if you have locally grown
farmers markets organics,
fabulous.
>> Yes.
>> If you can't get organic,
what we did at Arizona State
University, a good friend
of mine, Norman Walker--
he's gone now.
He was told by doctors he
would be dead at age 52,
and he was 50 at the time.
He walked away from that.
Didn't do it.
He and I were neighbors.
He decided to go with juices.
He died at age 109.
>> No shit.
>> Never went to
the doctor's again.
We went into the
lab, because he was
a professor of
agriculture and chemistry
at Arizona State University.
He had a spectral
analysis machine equipment
and everything.
He said, come on with me.
I want to show you something,
because in the future,
I think it's going to be
important to the people.
>> Yeah.
>> And I said, yeah, let's go.
We went down into
Scottsdale at Fifth Avenue,
went to the farmers
markets, got organic food,
went over to a store
called Alpha Beta, which
was not organic food,
just a regular produce--
>> Yeah, Kroger or whatever.
>> And we went in
there, and he got that.
We went into the lab, and
he chopped up the inorganic,
chopped up some of the organic.
The inorganic, he put it
into spectral analysis,
and it showed over 30 to 35
toxic poisonous chemicals that
were insecticides, pesticides,
herbicides, fungicides.
It was not good.
And he goes, now watch this.
He took the organic
food, put it in.
There was nothing.
And he said, but here's what
people don't understand.
All of the plants, from grass
to trees to fruits to vegetables
to all of them, produce
allele chemicals
that will not allow inside
the food any toxicities.
>> It's how they survive.
>> And I said, OK, wow, huh.
And he goes, watch this.
He goes over and gets the
inorganic food, the other half
that he hadn't chopped
up, chopped it up,
and put it into one cup,
because we had so much of it.
He did one cup of apple cider
vinegar, two liters of water,
and he put it into there
and swirled it around
and then rinsed it off.
Put it in spectral analysis.
It was as clean as
the organic food.
>> Wow.
>> And you don't have
to chop it up first.
He said I'll just keep
some of this whole,
and he set it over there.
He just did that, washed it,
then put it in-- nothing.
And so people need to know that.
>> That's important information.
That's extremely important.
>> And the cost of organic
food is a financial scam.
>> Oof.
>> It costs less to grow that
than all of the herbicides,
pesticides, fungicides,
and all of that.
>> So we can easily
get around it.
>> Get around it.
>> Apple cider vinegar.
>> A couple of extra minutes
in preparation, boom.
>> Yep.
If you don't have a
lot of the food to do,
just put in four or five
tablespoons in a half
a liter of water, swish
it around, rinse it off.
You're good to go.
It works.
When the pharmakeia, the
poison makers, went in--
>> Who are the
poison makers, man?
>> --to Alexandria--
>> What was the poison marker?
>> The poison makers all
throughout history have hated
scholars and healers.
They wanted people
to have poisons
and to have to come
to them to get it.
The word pharmaceutical
means poison maker.
It's that industry.
>> So it goes back way, way--
>> Oh, the earliest dynasties
of Egypt, the pharmaceuticals,
the poison makers,
murdered the [NON-ENGLISH],,
the lady healers of
Egypt, murdered them all.
They wanted them gone.
And so then you come
down through time,
it happened again and again.
It happened in 600 BC.
They went into the
Pythagorean Academy
where they embraced
scholarly genius and healing.
Pythagoras and all the ones
there, they murdered them,
burnt the records.
Luckily, as far as records
show, Pythagoras escaped.
In 326 AD, all of the scholar
healers from around the world
gathered in the
Greco-Roman Empire
and built a collection
of stones so they
could keep the records
from all the cultures there
called the Alexandrian Library.
The pharmakeia heard
about it, went over there,
murdered all of them,
and burnt the records.
They found out the
scholars and the healers
had built a backup
collection in Ephesus.
So they went over there and
murdered them and burned it.
And then it goes on and on.
But finally, the men and
women scholars and healers
had to go underground.
When the new America was being
put together, they came there.
The Wicca, the women
of wisdom and healing,
genius female scholars,
and then the powers
of Europe and the
pharmakeia and everything
came over there, found them,
burnt them, murdered them,
got rid of all of them again.
>> Again.
>> Ancient scholars,
which means observers--
scholar is anyone who naturally
observes out of interest.
Every child born on
the face of this Earth
is a natural scholastic genius.
Kids are on fire.
They're interested.
They want to observe.
They use their senses.
They'll pick stuff up and
taste it and say, oh, yuck.
And they go on.
And then they're shoved into
brick and mortar buildings
to sit in neat
little rows to chant
memorized, preselected
answers on curriculum that
are put into place by
multinational corporations
to gain control and to get you
to get a career to help them.
>> Let's go worker bees.
Let's go worker bees.
>> And these little kids--
and I'm thankful.
I've been barking this
for over 40 years.
But just in the
last seven years,
documentaries and others
are now coming forward
and exposing formal education
is ruining the creative genius.
They master language
on their own.
They know hundreds of words
by age one and a half,
and they've mastered
that language
typically by around age five.
They know thousands of words,
and they can speak any language
that they have been exposed to.
How did they do that?
They didn't go to school.
They didn't chant,
memorize anything.
They didn't sit in
neat little rows.
They weren't put on Ritalin
and all the other drugs.
They master the ability to speak
and communicate on their own.
And so what happens is they
lose the scholastic genius
by having to chant and memorize
these preselected answers
to put in blanks to get
a "grade that is good."
And they're not even interested.
So a lot of young
children lose their love
of learning, their
confidence, their self-esteem.
But the worst thing is
they lose who they are
and who they were coming
into the world on fire.
You get into the ancient
records of communities
in the ancient world,
they have records
that show the
measures of distance
of the Earth to the
moon and to 13 planets.
Look up Haumea, and Eris, and
Ceres, and all the others.
Look them up.
13 planets, and they wrote
and recorded the distance
from the Earth to those
planets, all of them.
And today's
astrophysicists agree
that that's exactly right.
How did they know
that back then?
How did they do that?
>> So the 13 on the body,
the 13 points, what is it?
>> It's interesting, because
anciently, they knew.
And they taught it.
And even at medical
university studies,
the researchers
know it's correct.
There is only one disease.
You can look up on
the internet, how many
human diseases are there?
And it'll show 16,024,
36,000, all this stuff.
There's only one-- chaos
at the atomic level
of the body that leads
to molecular chaos that
leads to cellular chaos.
There's only two causes of
any discomfort or disease
in the body.
They knew it.
Toxicity and
deficiency, that's it.
There's no mystery here.
You're either toxic,
or you're deficient.
They knew there were doorways
into the body for toxicities
to enter and to also be removed.
Today, in the
medical world, it's
called enterologies, doorways
to enter and to remove.
The 13 enterologies
was the sacredness
of the teachers of
the ancient world.
You have 13 doors into
and out of the body
that creates disease and
clears and heals disease.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, and the skin is number 12.
Poisons and toxicities
can go through the skin,
and they can come
out of the skin.
And in the modern
world, you would not
believe the toxic chemicals
people put on their skin--
>> Moisturizers, shampoos.
>> --on their hair, all
this stuff, exactly.
And the 13th was called
the always seeing eye.
Today, we know it as
imagination, thoughts.
Your thoughts can
be toxic or healing,
and your thoughts
create your emotions
that create your behaviors.
>> Which they can
control with the media,
and they nail us every damn day.
>> Every day.
We've got to wake up the people
and clear it out and get back
to embracing the physics of
nature that is around us.
Because that's
what we're made of.
>> Broken down, it's
so simple, isn't it?
>> Totally.
>> It's so simple, man.
>> Cheers.
Thanks so much, Don--
it's been such a pleasure,
man-- for sharing.
>> Thank you.
>> We're settling down now.
We're signing off.
Don's had enough.
We've said enough.
Haven't we, Don?
>> Yeah, it's probably
time to drink some beer.
>> God bless.
Guys, I wish you could be
here right with us now.
I mean, what a pleasure to get
to hang out with Don Tolman.
He's just an amazing
man, so generous.
He's just given us
so much information.
Thanks, Don,
appreciate it, brother.
Really do, man.
>> Appreciate you, Ty.
>> Thank you, guys.
See you.
I love you.
[KISSES] Peace.
>> See you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]